.Dd August 31, 2022
.Os Linux
.Dt SFPTPDCTL 8 SMM
.Sh NAME
sfptpdctl, sfptpdctl.py \- sfptpd control client
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm sfptpdctl
.Op Ar command Ns Op = Ns Ar parameter
.Nm sfptpdctl.py
.Ar command Ns Op = Ns Ar parameter
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Issue a control command to the sfptpd daemon.
.Pp
This utility uses the control interface for sfptpd over a Unix Domain Socket.
.Pp
The control interface is a unidirectional public interface that system administration scripts may use directly and an example Python script is provided to demonstrate this usage.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /usr/share/doc/sfptpd/examples/sfptpdctl.py
.It Pa /var/run/sfptpd-control-v1.sock
the sfptpd control socket
.It Pa /usr/share/doc/sfptpd/examples/sfptpdctl.c
source code for
.Nm sfptpdctl
.It Pa /ust/share/doc/sfptpd/examples/sfptpdctl.py
example script for using the sfptpd control interface
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Ss Log rotation
The following command will cause log files to be closed and opened to enable system log rotation.
.Pp
.Dl # sfptpdctl logrotate
.Ss Manual sync instance selection
When manual sync instance selection has been enabled with a configuration such as:
.Pp
.D1 selection_policy manual ptp1
.Pp
the following command will cause an alternative sync instance to be selected:
.Pp
.Dl # sfptpdctl selectinstance=ptp2
.Ss Help
The C utility shows a selection of useful commands when invoked with no parameters.
.Sh BUGS
Please raise bug reports at:
.Aq https://github.com/Xilinx-CNS/sfptpd/issues
.Pp
Support for users of Xilinx NICs is available from:
.Aq support-nic@xilinx.com
.Pp
It is advisabled to include an archive of
.Pa /var/lib/sfptpd
and the current daemon configuration in any support request.
.Sh AUTHORS
Xilinx, Inc.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sfptpd 8 .
.Pp
Full documentation is available at:
.Aq https://www.xilinx.com/download/drivers
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2022 Xilinx, Inc.

