.Dd July 04, 2023
.Os Linux
.Dt SFPTPMON 8 SMM
.Sh NAME
.Nm sfptpmon
.Nd Solarflare Enhanced PTP Monitor
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Nm
.Op Fl i Ar intf
.Op Fl l Ar address[:port]
.Op Fl m Ar intf[:[=]address[:port]]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Capture PTP event monitoring messages and convert into sfptpd remote monitoring
JSON format records on stdout, one per line, for consumption with the
monitoring_console.py example script or users' own tools.
.Pp
This tool replaces the remote_monitor functionality within sfptpd which is now
deprecated.
.Ss Options
.Bl -tag -width -m
.It Fl i
Specify default interface.
.It Fl l
Specify unicast listen address, port or both.
.It Fl m
Specify multicast interface, address, port or combination. If '=' precedes the
multicast address then also bind to that address.
.El
.Sh CONFORMING TO
This tool implements a receiver for the optional 'Slave Event Monitoring'
feature of IEEE Std 1588-2019, section 16.11.
.Pp
The sfptpd extension TLV to monitor status information is also supported.
.Sh BUGS
The script does not perform access control; system firewalls can be deployed
to limit access as required.
.Pp
Please note that this type of event monitoring is intended for diagnosing issues
within a PTP network. Other methods are better suited to and more comprehensive
for stats collection and use over a WAN. Users should consider consuming
the real time JSON stats emitted by individual sfptpd instances for continual
monitoring of time sync performance over an estate.
.Pp
Please raise bug reports at:
.Aq https://github.com/Xilinx-CNS/sfptpd/issues
.Pp
Support for users of Xilinx NICs is available from:
.Aq support-nic@xilinx.com
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Ss Sender
The following example sfptpd configuration will send the more useful types of
event monitoring message unicast to a monitoring node on port 10320.
.Bd -literal
[general]
sync_module ptp ptp1

[ptp1]
mon_monitor_address monitor.example.com:10320
mon_rx_sync_computed_data
mon_slave_status
.Ed
.Ss Monitoring node
.Bd -literal
sfptpmon -l :10320
.Ed
.Ss Broad multicast monitor
.Bd -literal
sfptpmon -i eth1 -m :[ff02::181] -m :[ff0e::181] -m :
.Ed

.Sh AUTHORS
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sfptpd 8 .

.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2023 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.

