.Dd March 20, 2025
.Os
.Dt tstool 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm tstool
.Nd Timestamping control utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -help
.Nm
.Op Fl -verbose | v
.Op Fl -config-file Pa file | Fl f Pa file
.Op Fl -persistent
.Op Fl -initial
.Op Fl -enable-efx
.Op Fl -disable-efx
.Ar command ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Examine and adjust PTP Hardware Clock devices, system clock and interface timestamping settings.
.Pp
This utility uses the mechanisms available to sfptpd to manipulate precision clocks on the system.
.Pp
Clocks may be specified by phc number, interface name or 'system'.
.Pp
A configuration file in the same format as used by
.Xr sfptpd 8
may be supplied.
Any settings in the configuration file will take precedence over the command line options.
Note that this behaviour differs from
.Nm sfptpd
which performs a second pass of the command line arguments after interpreting the config file.
The config file is useful for expressing options like
.Ql phc_diff_methods
for defining the preferred clock comparison methods to use.
.Pp
Note that trace is output from internal operations as if they were run by
.Nm sfptpd .
To suppress this,
specify
.Ql trace_level all 0
in a configuration file.
.Ss Commands
.Bl -tag
.It Nm clock list
List clocks.
.It Nm clock info Ar clock
Show information about
.Ar clock .
.It Nm clock get Ar clock
Read the time from
.Ar clock .
.It Nm clock step Ar clock Ar offset
Step
.Ar clock
by
.Ar offset
seconds.
.It Nm clock slew Ar clock Ar ppb
Slew
.Ar clock
by
.Ar ppb
parts per billion.
.It Nm clock set_to Ar clock1 Ar clock2
Set
.Ar clock1
to
.Ar clock2 .
.It Nm clock diff Ar clock1 Ar clock2
Report offset in seconds by which
.Ar clock1
is in advance of
.Ar clock2 .
.It Nm clock set_sync Ar clock Op Ar timeout
Set the sync status flag of supported clocks to indicate that
.Ar clock
is in sync,
expiring this flag after
.Ar timeout
seconds if not renewed.
Specify a
.Ar timeout
of
.Li 0
to clear the sync flag.
The default timeout of
.Li 60
seconds is used if the
.Ar timeout
argument is omitted.
.It Nm clock dedup
Deduplicate clock devices by working out which ones share the same underlying
physical clock.
.It Nm interface list
List available physical interfaces suitable for PTP.
.It Nm interface info Ar interface
Show information about a physical interface.
.It Nm interface set_ts Ar interface Ar tx-type Ar rx-filter
Set timestamping modes for an interface.
Use
.Nm interface info
to see what values are available to set for a given interface.
.El
.Sh BUGS
Please raise bug reports at:
.Aq https://github.com/Xilinx-CNS/sfptpd/issues
.Pp
Support for users of AMD Solarflare NICs is available from:
.Aq support-nic@amd.com
.Sh AUTHORS
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sfptpd 8 .
.Pp
Full documentation is available at:
.Aq https://docs.amd.com/r/en-US/ug1602-ptp-user
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2024-2025 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
